

This directory contains miscellaneous useful scripts, some of them contributed
by various users. Additions and/or improvements are welcome. 

chroot.sh: prepare chroot environment for the log server
---------

   Usage: chroot.sh <chroot_directory>

   Tested on Debian Linux. Your mileage may vary.
   After running the script, review <chroot_directory>/etc/passwd
   to replace passwords with a *, and to fix the
   path to the home directory of the yule user.
   If using a signed configuration file, you need
   a working copy of GnuPG inside the chroot jail.

   This script will probably fail on systems other than Linux, 
   mainly because of the mknod commands to create devices 
   in the chroot jail.

   NO WARRANTY !!!

samhainadmin.pl
---------------

   Perform various tasks useful if you are using signed configuration
   and database files.

   Run 'samhainadmin.pl -h' for usage instructions.

yuleadmin.pl
------------

   Perl script (by Riccardo Murri) to list, add, and remove clients 
   from the yulerc file.

   Run 'yuleadmin.pl -h' for usage instructions.

samhainrc_update.sh
-------------------

   If you are using the --with-kcheck option on Linux, after a kernel
   update you need to change some option (addresses of kernel functions)
   in the samhainrc configuration file. The correct new addresses must
   be looked up in the System.map file

   This script will do this automatically. Run 'samhainrc_update.sh -h'
   for usage instructions. You may need to change the location of the
   samhainrc file by editing the line 'cfgfile="/etc/samhainrc"'
   at the beginning of the script.
 
check_samhain.pl
----------------

   Nagios plugin for samhain. Will execute samhain and report results
   in the way expected by nagios. Drop this into your nagios/libexec/
   directory.

samhain.logrotator: logrotate script
------------------

   This is a logrotate script (contributed by Simon Bailey)

concat.pl
---------

   Concatenate samhain file signature databases and write the resulting
   database file to stdout. Does not work on signed or otherwise modified
   file signature databases.

samhain.{cgi|dtd|xsl}: display XML logfile in XML capable browser 
---------------------  (works with Mozilla 1.2, possibly Mozilla 1.0, IE 6)

   Usage: 1. review samhain.cgi (see remarks in file)
          2. drop samhain.cgi, samhain.dtd, samhain.xsl in some
             directory on your webserver
          3. use .htaccess to protect access to that directory
          4. point your browser at samhain.cgi

   You may need to rename samhain.cgi to samhain.php if you use
   mod_php. Also, you will certainly need to edit the path to the
   logfile in samhain.cgi.

   CAVEAT: There is no built-in access restriction (use .htaccess to
	   password-protect the directory).

   The XSL stylesheet is based on a contribution by Olivier Salaun.


samhain.spec: RPM spec file for building a vanilla single-host RPM
------------

   Contributed by Andre Oliveira da Costa <brblueser@uol.com.br>

   This is a spec file to produce a vanilla single-host samhain RPM
   (no fancy options, standard directory layout :).

   Accepted parameters for 'rpmbuild':

   --with gpg		- enables gpg support
   --with tests		- make tests before building

redhat_i386.client.spec: RPM spec file for building a RedHat client RPM
------------

   Contributed by Philipp Stadler <philipp@stadler.priv.at>

   Does not install documentation or local config file.


		   
